In this lecture, we are going to test our end point with postmen before getting started.
I created three recipes.
They are called Recipe one, recipe two and Recipe three.
Each recipe has an image and cuisine.
Lastly, I've given each recipe a rating recipe.
One has a rating of five stars.
Recipe two has a rating of two stars and Recipe three has a rating of four stars.
Creating these recipes will be necessary for testing our end points.
I want you to pause the video and recreate these posts.
Theoretically, we should be able to query these posts in the following order.
Recipe one, recipe three and recipe two.
Let's test if that's true, open the postman.
Application in postman.
We are going to create a new request in the URL field.
Let's type the following path.
Udemy dot local slash wp json slash wp slash v two slash recipe.
The endpoint is a custom endpoint created by WordPress.
During the registration of the recipe post type, WordPress will create an endpoint for the recipe.
The endpoint is named after the post type.
The question is what kind of request can we perform to this endpoint?
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to the Post's reference page.
Custom post types will adopt the same endpoints and features as a post.
We can rely on this documentation page for the types of requests that are possible.
Let's head back to Postman.
Our goal is to grab a list of recipes.
A list of posts can be requested with a get request.
Typically, this is the default method for new HTTP requests under the params section.
Let's begin filtering the posts to begin.
The number of results should be limited.
For this example, let's set the per page parameter to ten.
In our block, we are limiting results to between one and ten.
For the sake of simplicity, we all limit results to the maximum threshold.
Next, let's add a parameter called cuisine.
We can filter posts by a taxonomy by adding the taxonomy as a query parameter.
WordPress is capable of detecting our custom taxonomy in the request.
It will curate a query that will filter posts by the taxonomy added to the request.
The value for this parameter must be a list of term IDs.
Let's grab the add that was used for the dummy recipes.
I'll show you how to grab this information head on over to the WordPress Admin dashboard.
Navigate to the page for managing the cuisine taxonomy.
Next click on the cuisine associated with our recipes.
In the query parameters of the URL, there's a parameter called tag ID.
This parameter contains the ID of the term.
Let's copy this ID and paste it into the cuisine parameter of our request.
There are additional parameters, but let's try testing our request.
Send the request to WordPress.
The request is working without a problem.
If we look at the responses body, the response contains an array of recipes.
In total, there should be three recipes.
If you have more than three posts associated with a term, you may receive more than three posts.
Everything looks fine, but there is something missing from the response.
As a reminder, we are trying to display a list of popular recipes with each post.
The posts, image, title and author should appear.
Looking through the data, the title of the post is available.
However, the image and author are not available with this information.
By default, WordPress does not expose this information.
If you were to search through the documentation, there isn't any information available on how to grab
this information.
Unfortunately, it's not documented anywhere.
However, there is a solution for adding this information to the request under the parameters section.
Add a parameter called underscore embed.
This parameter does not have a value.
Simply adding it will help us get the desired behavior.
Let's send the request again.
In the body of the response.
Things are slightly different this time.
A new property is available with each post called Underscore Embedded.
Previously, this property was not available by adding the underscore embed parameter.
WordPress will include information related to the author and image.
As you can see, we have two properties called author and WP featured image.
Within these properties, we have additional information pertaining to the author of the post and the
featured image.
So far, the end point for receiving a list of recipes seems fine.
However, there is one more problem that needs to be addressed.
The posts are not in the desired order.
The first item in the array should be the post with the highest rating vice versa.
The last item in the array should be the post, with the lowest rating in the response.
The first object represents recipe number three.
Followed by recipe number two.
Lastly, we have recipe number one.
This is not the order that we are hoping for.
The order should be recipe number one, recipe number three.
And lastly, recipe number two.
Let's head back to the documentation for the Post's End Point.
Click on the list posts link.
This link will take us to the section for modifying the results of this endpoint.
If we scroll through the arguments table, we are going to come across.
An argument called Order by WordPress gives us the option of ordering the list of posts by a specific
value.
In our case, we're trying to order the posts by their rating.
The rating of a recipe is stored as metadata.
If we look at the list of possible values.
WordPress does not give us the option of ordering posts by metadata.
This is where our problems begin.
The posts must be sorted by their rating.
To achieve this behaviour, we must modify the query created by the endpoint.
Luckily, WordPress has a filter for exposing the original query before the query is sent to the database.
We are given the opportunity to modify it.
In the next lecture, let's add support for ordering posts by rating.